TL_ex01_ti01
The Roots of Conflict 

TL_ex01_pt01
American Revolution 

The origins of the American Revolution reach back to the founding of Britain’s North American colonies, which enjoyed limited rights of self-government. When the British Parliament imposed taxes and other regulations on the colonies in the 1760s to help pay the costs of war against France, many colonists protested that their rights as British subjects had been violated. Tensions mounted, especially in Massachusetts, where the colonial assembly defied British laws and called for coordinated resistance among the colonies. British efforts to disarm rebels near Boston provoked fighting in April 1775, sparking a war that would last more than eight years.

TL_ex01_st01
From Rebellion to Revolution 

At first, the rebels proclaimed their loyalty to the king and demanded only political and economic concessions. Faced with intensifying British military operations, however, the 13 colonies embraced the goal of independence, and the Continental Congress approved the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776. On the battlefield, the British had the better of the fighting for many months but could not achieve a decisive victory over George Washington’s fledgling Continental Army, which persevered despite inadequate resources and sometimes low morale. American prospects brightened in 1777, when France, emboldened by a major American victory at the Battle of Saratoga, entered the war on the rebels’ side. 

TL_ex01_st02
A New Nation 

The fighting came to an end in October 1781, when a major part of the British army surrendered to American and French forces at Yorktown, Virginia. After this setback, British leaders chose peace over the continuation of an expensive and uncertain war. On September 3, 1783, negotiators signed the Treaty of Paris, which conceded the independence of territory east of the Mississippi River—a stunning victory for the colonies over a mighty world power. But the treaty left innumerable questions about how 13 colonies could be knitted together into a functional unit and defend themselves against an array of threats.

TL_ex03_ti01
U.S.–British Tensions

TL_ex03_pt02
War of 1812

The American Revolution secured U.S. independence, but Britain still threatened the new nation. The former colonial power maintained forts on the northwest frontier and encouraged American Indians to resist white settlement west of the Appalachians. On the Atlantic Ocean, the Royal Navy interfered with American shipping to prevent goods from reaching Britain’s perennial enemy, France, and sometimes forced American sailors into service on British ships. Mounting hostility to Britain led many Americans to urge war. Despite strong opposition in New England, the United States declared war on Britain on June 18, 1812. Fighting quickly erupted in three regions.